Ladies and Gentlemen...

h2. WIND: A simple way to think

Wind is a blog engine. And it's simple, realy simple.

HTML5 is pretty, and Wind was developed with it. Ready for the future! Until 2012, at least.

Why simple? Because you don't need a extravaganza just to write. Or do you think that Bible was written with a powerfull word processor? Powerfull inspiration, ok, but with simple tools.

Maybe you want to view a example: "http://wagnerandrade.com/":http://wagnerandrade.com/

h3. 1 - Features

Few features, but the engine is in constant development. Nevertheless, Wind dont want a lot of stuffs and tools, it's made to be simple.

The basic features are:
    
* Semantic HTML5. This is a important feature to internet future.
* Feed RSS. Basic in a blog.
* HTML widgets. To create menus, texts, twitter widget, flicker or what you has in your mind.
* Textile text formatting. To do a easy, beauty and semantic text formatting.
* Database-agnostic-independent-cool. You can use your prefered database.
* We forgot a important feature? Suggest!

New features, future features and suggest features:

bq. "http://github.com/wagnerandrade/wind/issues":http://github.com/wagnerandrade/wind/issues

h3. 2 - How it works?

Download the source code and install the required gems (to sqlite database):

<pre>
sudo gem install sinatra sqlite3-ruby sequel RedCloth builder
</pre>

Ok, now is just run the server:

<pre>
ruby app.rb
</pre>

Open your favorite browser, access:

<pre>
http://localhost:4567
</pre>

Ok... login (link on footer), think and write!
The default admin code is "admin". D'oh!

h3. 3 - Config & Settings

All (few) configurations can be made in config.rb file.
Blog settings (name, code...) could be edited in settings page.

h3. 4 - Themes

Build a theme to wind is very easy. Just put a @style.css@ file and your resources (images, fonts...) on @public/custom@ directory.

The theme of "wagnerandrade.com":http://wagnerandrade.com is "avabile here":http://github.com/wagnerandrade/wagnerandrade.com-theme.

h3. 5 - Plugins

* "Wordpress Importer":http://gist.github.com/494525